# Machine Learning method for As-Is tunnels BIM model reconstruction
In recent years, there has been a growing interest and awareness in developing innovative tools and methods to improve the inspection and maintenance of existing infrastructures. As infrastructures age, efficient investigation and diagnosis methods become crucial, along with reliable tools for maintenance planning. Complex works require a large amount of data for comprehensive analysis, and processing big data, such as point clouds from laser tunnel surveys, can be challenging without proper IT tools. This contribution proposes an innovative methodology for segmenting and classifying point clouds of road tunnels. We aim to accurately reconstruct the infrastructure geometry, organize the necessary data, and initiate the planning of maintenance work by sharing geometric and information models. Data from four Italian tunnels were considered, with each tunnel being divided into segments and clustered to obtain homogeneous groups of points. These clusters were then manually classified to create a labelled dataset for training machine learning classification algorithms. From the surveyed point cloud of the tunnels, the classified points representing the infrastructure elements can be used to model virtual objects, such as canopy, road surface, pavements, equipment, and more. These results can be shared via the OpenBIM format, enabling efficient data exchange among personnel and tools involved in maintenance operations.
